Skip to main content
Whitman College Clocktower Logo
Apply • Alumni • Diversity • Library • MyWhitman • Parents
GIVE NOW
About
Academics
Admission & Aid
After Whitman
Athletics
Campus Life
Site
People
About Whitman College
Section Navigation
An education from Whitman College is special
As a small residential liberal arts college in Walla Walla, Washington, Whitman is rooted in the traditional liberal arts values like critical thought and academic rigor.
ut at our foundation is also a belief in the value of community and power of relationships.
ur graduates are scholars, but also explorers, advocates and scientists.
hey climb mountains, travel to far-off corners and give voice to others.
hey care about community and aim to become citizens of the world.
About Walla Walla
An award-winning downtown with boutique shops and gourmet restaurants; world-class outdoors experiences in our backyard; and a mild climate with ample sunshine.
alla Walla, Washington, has it all.
ur close-knit, caring community provides the perfect environment in which to live and learn.
Learn more about Walla Walla
Scholarships & Financial Aid
$30M in scholarships awarded annually
76% of students receive financial aid
60% of students graduate with no loan debt
$19,000 Those who do take on loans graduate with about $19,000 in debt
Financial Aid & Costs Merit and Talent Awards
Whitman History
Styx sculpture, Ankeny Field
Founded in 1859 as Whitman Seminary, Whitman College became a non-sectarian, four-year, degree-granting college in 1883.
As a private institution, the college prides itself on its independence from sectarian and political control.
Read more about Whitman's history
Accolades for Whitman College
#6
Most accessible professors — Princeton Review
#18
Top liberal arts colleges in the west — Forbe's, America's top colleges
#2
Best colleges in the state of Washington — BestColleges.com
See more rankings
Majors, Minors and Programs
Minors
Other
All
Anthropology
Art
Art History and Visual Culture Studies
Astronomy
Biology
Chemistry
Chinese
Classical Studies
Computer Science
Creative Writing
Dance
Data Science
Departments and Programs
Economics
Engineering (3-2 Combined Plan)
English
Environmental Studies
Film and Media Studies
Forestry and Environmental Management (Combined Plan)
French
Gender Studies
General Studies
Geology
German Studies
Global Literatures
Global Studies Concentration
Hispanic Studies
History
Individually Planned Majors
Japanese
Latin American Studies
Mathematics and Statistics
Music
Oceanography (Combined Plan)
Philosophy
Physics
Politics
Psychology
Race and Ethnic Studies
Religion
Rhetoric, Writing and Public Discourse
Sociology
Sports Studies, Recreation and Athletics
Theatre
Visit Our Campus
Apply For Admission
Give to Whitman
About
Communications
Contact Us
Interactive Map
Leadership and Organization
Mission, Constitution and Bylaws
Newsroom
Our Campus
Our Community
Office of the President
Rankings Roundup
Whitman Hallmarks
Whitman Magazine
Academics
Academic Calendar
Academic Resource Center
Careers, Professions and the Liberal Arts
Catalog
Center for Global Studies
Community Outreach
Departments and Programs
Fellowships and Grants
Honor Societies
Maxey Museum
Off-Campus Studies
Penrose Library
Provost and Dean of the Faculty
Registrar's Office
Whitman's Faculty
Whitman Undergraduate Conference
Admission & Aid
Welcome Class of 2024!
Applying to Whitman
Admission & Financial Aid Contacts
Early Decision
Financial Aid & Costs
Learn More About Whitman
Merit and Talent Awards
Request Information
Virtual Tours
Visit Whitman
Whitman on the Road
Campus Life
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Greek Life
International Student & Scholar Services
New Student Orientation
Outdoor Program
Pathways Leadership Program for Whitman Students
Reid Campus Center
Residence Life
Sophomore Summit
Student Activities
Student Affairs
Student Clubs and Organizations
Student Employment
Student Engagement Center
Sustainability
Quick Links
A to Z Index
Bias Reporting
Bookstore
Career Services
The Center fOr Writing and Speaking (COWS)
Employment Opportunities
Giving
Welty Student Health Center
Campus Map
Newsroom
Penrose Library
Right to Know
Sexual Misconduct & Title IX
Grievance Policy
Social Media
Website Privacy Policy
345 Boyer Ave. Walla Walla, WA 99362
General: 509-527-5111 • Admission: 509-527-5176
This article is about the college in Washington.
or the residential college at Princeton University, see Whitman College, Princeton University.
Whitman CollegeWhitman College Logo.jpg
Motto per ardua surgo (Latin)
Motto in English
Through adversities I rise
Type Private liberal arts college
Established December 20, 1859
Religious affiliation
Non-sectarian
Endowment $561.0 million (2018)[1]
President Kathleen Murray
Academic staff 200
Undergraduates 1,470[2]
Location Walla Walla, Washington, United States
46.0706922°N 118.3288535°W
Campus 117 acres (0.47 km2)
Colors Navy Blue and Maize
Athletics NCAA Division III – NWC
Nickname Blues
Affiliations Annapolis Group
Oberlin Group
CLAC
Colleges That Change Lives
Sports 15 varsity teams
Website www.whitman.edu
Whitman College wordmark.png
We ask you, humbly: don't scroll away.
Hi, reader in the U.S., it seems you use Wikipedia a lot; that's great! It's awkward to ask, but this Saturday we need your help.
ur 2019 fundraiser will be over very soon.
e depend on our exceptional readers to donate; fewer than 2% give.
f Wikipedia gives you $2.75 worth of knowledge, the cost of your Saturday coffee, take a minute to secure its future with a gift to the Wikimedia Endowment.
hank you.
Please select a payment method
Maxey Hall (Social Sciences)
Hunter Conservatory (Rhetoric and Film Studies)
An artificial pond on Mill Creek
A corner of Ankeny Field.
yman House to the left.
The Memorial Building, Whitman College
Whitman College is a private liberal arts college in Walla Walla, Washington.
ounded as a seminary by a territorial legislative charter in 1859, the school became a four-year degree-granting institution in 1882.[3] It is accredited by the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges and competes athletically in the NCAA Division III Northwest Conference.[4] The school offers 48 majors and 33 minors in the liberal arts and sciences,[5] and it has a student-to-faculty ratio of 9:1.[4] Whitman was the first college in the Pacific Northwest to install a Phi Beta Kappa chapter, and the first in the U.S. to require comprehensive exams for graduation.[3]
Contents
1 History
1.1 Whitman Seminary
1.2 From seminary to college
1.3 Financial turmoil and new leadership
1.4 End of religious affiliation
1.5 World War II
2 Campus
2.1 Prentiss Hall
3 Academics
3.1 Combined programs
3.2 Off-campus programs
3.3 Student Engagement Center
3.4 Admissions
4 Student life
4.1 Athletics
4.2 KWCW 90.5 FM
5 College leadership
5.1 List of presidents
5.2 Alumni board
6 Notable alumni
6.1 Government
6.2 Arts and entertainment
6.3 Journalism and history
6.4 Academia
6.5 Business
6.6 Science and technology
6.7 Athletics
6.8 Other
7 Alma mater
8 Notable professors
9 References
10 Further reading
11 External links
History
Whitman Seminary
In 1859, soon after the United States military declared that the land east of the Cascade Mountains was open for settlement by American pioneers, Cushing Eells traveled from the Willamette Valley to Waiilatpu, near present-day Walla Walla, where 12 years earlier, Christian missionaries Dr. Marcus Whitman and Narcissa Whitman, along with 12 others were killed by a group of Cayuse Indians during the Whitman Massacre.
While at the site, Eells became determined to establish a "monument" to his former missionary colleagues in the form of a school for pioneer boys and girls.
Eells obtained a charter for Whitman Seminary, a pre-collegiate school, from the territorial legislature.
From the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, he acquired the Whitman mission site.
Eells soon moved to the site with his family and began working to establish Whitman Seminary.
Despite Eells's desire to locate Whitman Seminary at the Whitman mission site, local pressure and resources provided a way for the school to open in the burgeoning town of Walla Walla.
In 1866, Walla Walla's wealthiest citizen, Dorsey Baker, donated land near his house to the east of downtown.
A two-story wood-frame building was quickly erected and classes began later that year.
The school's first principal, local Congregational minister Peasly B. Chamberlin, resigned within a year and Cushing Eells was called upon to serve as principal, which he did until 1869.
After Eells's resignation in 1869, the school struggled—and often failed—to attract students, pay teachers, and stay open for each term.[6]
From seminary to college
Whitman's trustees decided in 1882 that while their institution could not continue as a prep school, it might survive as the area's only college.
Alexander Jay Anderson, the former president of the Territorial University (now the University of Washington), came to turn the institution into a college and become its president.
After modeling the institution after New England liberal arts colleges, Anderson opened the school on September 4, 1882 (Marcus Whitman's birthday) with an enrollment of 60 students and three senior faculty (Anderson, his wife and son).
In 1883, the school received a collegiate charter and began expanding with aid from the Congregational American College and Education Society.[6]
Financial turmoil and new leadership
Despite local support for Whitman College and help from the Congregational community, financial troubles set in for the school.
After losing favor with some of the school's supporters, Anderson left Whitman in 1891 to be replaced by Reverend James Francis Eaton.
The continuing recession of the 1890s increased the institution's financial worries and lost Eaton his backing, leading to his resignation in 1894.[6]
Reverend Stephen Penrose, an area Congregational minister and former trustee, became president of the college and brought the school back to solvency by establishing Whitman's endowment with the aid of D. K. Pearsons, a Chicago philanthropist.
y popularizing Marcus Whitman's life and accomplishments (including the suspect claim that the missionary had been pivotal in the annexation by the United States of Oregon Territory), Penrose was able to gain support and resources for the college.
nder his leadership, the faculty was strengthened and the first masonry buildings, Billings Hall and the Whitman Memorial Building, were constructed.[6]
End of religious affiliation
In 1907, Penrose began a plan called "Greater Whitman" which sought to transform the college into an advanced technical and science center.
o aid fundraising, Penrose abandoned affiliation with the Congregational Church, and became unaffiliated with any denomination.
he prep school was closed and fraternities and sororities were introduced to the campus.
ltimately, this program was unable to raise enough capital; in 1912, the plan was abandoned and Whitman College returned to being a small liberal arts institution, albeit with increased focus on co-curricular activities.[6] Penrose iterated the school's purpose "to be a small college, with a limited number of students to whom it will give the finest quality of education".[7] In 1920 Phi Beta Kappa installed a chapter,[6] the first for a Northwest college,[8] and Whitman had its first alum Rhodes Scholar.[6]
World War II
During World War II, Whitman was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy commission.
Campus
"Styx" (2002), by Deborah Butterfield, sits on Ankeny Field.
A view toward the Quad from the steps of Penrose Library.
Whitman's 117 acre campus is located in downtown Walla Walla, Washington.
ost of the campus is centered around a quad, which serves as the location for intramural field sports.
round this, Ankeny Field, sits Penrose Library, Olin Hall and Maxey Hall, and two residence halls, Lyman and Jewett.
outh of Ankeny Field, College Creek meanders through the main campus, filling the artificially created "Lakum Duckum", the heart of campus and the habitat for many of Whitman's beloved ducks.
The oldest building on campus is the administrative center, Whitman Memorial Building, commonly referred to as "Mem".
uilt in 1899, the hall, like the college, serves as a memorial to Dr. Marcus and Narcissa Prentiss Whitman.
he building is the tallest on campus and was placed on the National Historical Register of Historic Places in 1974.
he oldest residence halls on campus, Lyman House and Prentiss Hall, were built in 1924 and 1926.
ver the next fifty years, the college built or purchased several other buildings to house students, including the former Walla Walla Valley General Hospital, which was transformed into North Hall in 1978, which was then closed in 2017.
n addition to the seven Residence Halls, many students choose to live in one of eleven "Interest Houses," run for sophomore, juniors, and seniors committed to specific focuses such as community service, fine arts, environmental studies, multicultural awareness, or the French, Spanish, or German languages.
hese houses, like most of the residential architecture of Walla Walla, are in the Victorian or Craftsman style.
In addition to property in Walla Walla, the college also has about 22,000 acres (89 km2) of other land holdings – mainly in the form of wheat farms in Eastern Washington and Oregon.
f special note: the Johnston Wilderness Campus, which is used for academic and social retreats.
Prentiss Hall
Named for Marcus's wife, Narcissa Prentiss Whitman, Prentiss Hall is the only all-female dorm and houses first-year residents as well as the four sororities on campus.
hitman's affiliated sororities are Kappa Kappa Gamma, Delta Gamma, Alpha Phi, and Kappa Alpha Theta.
appa Alpha Theta, colloquially referred to as Theta, was formed originally as a women's fraternity, not a sorority.
rentiss Hall's most well-known resident is Narcissa Prentiss Whitman.
arcissa can be seen frequenting the halls and restrooms of the residence, as well as loitering in the drains of the kitchen sinks.
 portrait of her hangs in the custodians' lounge in the basement of the building.
he basement also houses the Whitman Spirituality room.
Academics
Whitman College focuses solely on undergraduate studies in the liberal arts.
ll students must take a two-semester course their first year, Encounters, which examines cultural interactions throughout history and gives students a grounding in the liberal arts.
tudents choose from courses in 48 major fields and 34 minor fields[9] and have wide flexibility in designing independent study programs, electing special majors, and participating in internships and study-abroad programs.
hitman's most popular majors are Biology, Psychology and Economics.[10] In addition, Whitman is noted for a strong science program.
Degrees are awarded after successful completion of senior "comprehensive exams".
hese exams vary depending on the students' primary focus of study, but commonly include some combination of (i) a senior thesis, (ii) written examination, and (iii) oral examination.
he oral examination is either a defense of the student's senior thesis, or is one or multiple exams of material the student is expected to have learned during their major.
he written exam is either a GRE subject test or a test composed by the department.
University rankings
National
Forbes[11] 89
Times/WSJ[12] 101
Liberal arts colleges
U.S. News & World Report[13] 46
Washington Monthly[14] 81
For students who are interested in foreign policy, Whitman is one of 16 institutions participating in the two-year-old Thomas R. Pickering Foreign Affairs Fellowship program.[15][16] The State Department pays for fellows to obtain their master's degree at the university of their choice in return for three years of service as a Foreign Service Officer.
hitman has a number of alumni who serve in diplomatic corps.
Combined programs
Whitman also offers combined programs in conjunction with several institutions throughout the United States:[17]
3–2 programs in engineering with the California Institute of Technology, Columbia University, Duke University, University of Washington, and Washington University;
3–2 programs in forestry and environmental management with Duke University, leading to a Master of Environmental Management or an MBA degree;
A 3–2 program in oceanography at University of Washington, leading to a Whitman B.A. and a U. of Washington B.S. in Oceanography.
Off-campus programs
Whitman offers a "Semester in the West" program, a field study program in environmental studies, focusing on ecological, social, and political issues confronting the American West.
uring every other fall semester since 2002, 21 students leave Walla Walla to travel throughout the interior West for field meetings with a variety of leading figures in conservation, ecology, environmental writing, and social justice.[18]
Whitman also offers "The U.S.-Mexico Border Program" every other June.
he program is based in Arizona and Sonora, Mexico, and exposes students to a wide range of competing perspectives on the politics of immigration, border enforcement, and globalization.[19]
Since 1982, "Whitman in China" provides Whitman alumni the opportunity to teach English at Northwestern Polytechnical University, Shantou University, or Yunnan University.
articipants receive an immersion experience in urban Chinese culture, where they can witness the rapid modernization of the country.
t the same time, Whitman alumni give Chinese university students the rare chance to study with an English native speaker.[20]
Whitman also offers a large range of year- or semester-long off-campus study programs - 88 programs across 40 countries,[21] and a few short-term, faculty-led programs.[22]
Student Engagement Center
In 2010, under the leadership of (former) President George Bridges, Whitman centralized and integrated various programs intended to help students connect their in-class learning to off-campus work, volunteer, and internship opportunities in the Walla Walla Valley.
he office that emerged, the Student Engagement Center (SEC), houses community service and career services in one place.
tudents and alumni can get assistance with resumes, cover letters, networking, internships, interviews, grad school applications, and civic engagement in the SEC.
Admissions
Whitman's admission selectivity is considered "more selective" by U.S.
ews & World Report.[23] There were 3,749 applications for admission to the Class of 2020 (starting Fall 2016): 1,917 were admitted (51.1%) and 425 enrolled.[24] The enrolling freshmen class' middle 50% range of SAT scores was 600–720 for reading, 600–700 for math, and 600–690 for writing, while the ACT Composite range was 28–33.[24]
Student life
Of the 1,539 undergraduate students enrolled in Whitman College in the fall of 2014, 56.3% were female and 43.7% male.[2] There are over one hundred student activities, many of which focus on student activism and social improvement, such as Whitman Direct Action and Global Medicine.
 quarter of the student body participates in some for the college's music program, in one of the 15 music groups and ensembles, including three recognized A cappella groups.
Greek life is notable on campus; there is a high percentage of students, around 33% involved in the Greek system.
he four women's sororities, (Kappa Alpha Theta, Delta Gamma, Alpha Phi, and Kappa Kappa Gamma) are housed in the Prentiss Hall, while the four men's fraternities, (Sigma Chi, Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta Theta, and Tau Kappa Epsilon) are housed in fraternity houses north of Isaacs Avenue.
The Delta chapter of Phrateres, a non-exclusive, non-profit social-service club, also had a brief existence at Whitman.
t was installed there in 1930, but became inactive before 1950.
Athletics
Whitman holds membership in the NCAA's Northwest Conference (Division III) and fields nine varsity teams each for men and women.
n 2016 the college adopted the new mascot for the school and its athletes of "the blues," named after the local mountain range.
ore than 20 percent of students participate in a varsity sport.
n addition, 70 percent of the student body participate in intramural and club sport.
hese sports include rugby union, water polo, lacrosse, dodgeball, and nationally renowned cycling and Ultimate teams.
The club-sport-level Whitman Cycling team has won the DII National Championships for the past 2 years, and 4 times in the past 6 years, making them the athletic team at Whitman with the most National Championships.
he Women's Ultimate team, also a club sports team, finished second to Stanford in Division I play in 2016.[25]
KWCW 90.5 FM
Entrance to Penrose Library.
Olin Hall (Humanities and Mathematics).
Admission Office building at Whitman College in the summer of 2009.
KWCW 90.5 FM is a Class A radio station owned and operated by the Whitman Students' Union, the Associated Students of Whitman College (ASWC).[26][27][28][29]
"K-dub" as it is known to students, is located inside the Reid Campus Center on Whitman Campus.
t a power of 160 watts, the station's range is approximately 15 miles (24 km), broadcasting as well as streaming online[30][31]
College leadership
Whitman College is governed by Trustees in conjunction with a college President, Overseers and Alumni Board.
List of presidents
Alexander J. Anderson, 1882–1891
James F. Eaton, 1891–1894
Stephen B. L. Penrose, 1894–1934
Rudolf A. Clemen, 1934–1936
Walter Andrew Bratton, 1936–1942
Winslow S. Anderson, 1942–1948
Chester C. Maxey, 1948–1959
Louis B. Perry, 1959–1967
Donald Sheehan, 1968–1974
Robert Allen Skotheim, 1975–1988
David Evans Maxwell, 1989–1993
Thomas E. Cronin, 1993–2005
George Sumner Bridges, 2005–June 2015
Kathleen M. Murray, July 2015 – present
Alumni board
Whitman College alumni started the Alumni Association in 1895 to relay alumni reaction to college programs back to the Alumni Office.
The current president of the board is Kirsten Adams Gable '01, and Mary Deming Barber '78, is vice president.[32]
Notable alumni
Government
1910 – James Alger Fee, Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
1920 – William O. Douglas, BA English-Economics, U.S. Supreme Court Justice
1935 – Al Ullman, U.S. Congressman for 24 years
1941 – Lucile Lomen, First woman to serve as a law clerk for a Supreme Court justice
1951 – Jack Burtch, BA Political Science, former Washington State Representative, lawyer & Navy veteran
1960 – Pat Thibaudeau, BA Psychology, former Washington State Senator
1963 – W. Michael Gillette, BA, Oregon Supreme Court Justice
1964 – Walt Minnick, BA, former Idaho Congressman
1969 – James L. Robart, Judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington
1971 – Ryan Crocker, BA English, former U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan and former U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, Lebanon, Kuwait, Syria, and Pakistan
1971 – Ben Westlund, BA Education/History, former Oregon State Treasurer
2000 –Neil Kornze, BA Politics, former Director of the U.S. Bureau of Land Management
Arts and entertainment
1951 – Adam West, BA English, actor, Batman, Family Guy.
1967 – Dirk Benedict (Niewoehner), BA Dramatic Art, Actor, known for Battlestar Galactica and The A-Team.
1967 – Craig Lesley, Novelist
1971 – Kathryn Shaw, BA Dramatic Art, artistic director of Studio 58 in Vancouver, British Columbia.
1977 – Rick Stevenson, BA History, film writer, director and producer.
1985 – Lance Norris, BA Dramatic Art, Mystic River.
1985 – Patrick Page, Actor and playwright
1990 – John Moe, BA Dramatic Art, author and public radio host.
1998 – Shane Johnson, Actor, "Saving Private Ryan", Black Cadillac"
2002 – Anomie Belle, BA Sociology, professional musician and artivist
2002 – Lela Loren, BA Theatre, American Television Actress
2003 – Cullen Hoback, Filmmaker, "Terms and Conditions May Apply"
Otto Harbach, MA, lyricist and librettist of about 50 musical comedies, including Rose Marie and The Desert Song.
Journalism and history
1933 – Gordon Wright, BA, Historian.
1960 – Douglas Cole, BA Art History, Historian specializing in art and Pacific Northwest cultural history.
1971 – John Markoff, BA Sociology, New York Times journalist and co-author of Takedown.
Academia
1919 – Frances Penrose Owen, BA Greek, honored for her extensive public service in Seattle, first woman Regent of Washington State University
1924 – Vladimir Rojansky, physicist, author and educator.
1944 – Dan Fenno Henderson, founder of the University of Washington Asian law program[33]
1965 – Ben Kerkvliet, author and educator in the fields of comparative politics, Southeast Asia and Asian studies.
1970 – Stephen A. Hayner, BA English Literature, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, former president of InterVarsity Christian Fellowship.
1973 – Torey Hayden, BA, Biology/Chemistry, child psychologist, special education teacher, university lecturer and author.
Business
1922 – Ralph Cordiner,[34] BA Economics-Political Science, CEO and chairman, General Electric, Corp.(1958–1963); President (1950–1958)
1977 – John W. Stanton, BA Political Science, Founder and CEO, Western Wireless.
Science and technology
1908 – David Crockett Graham, BA, missionary, archeologist, anthropologist, field collector for Smithsonian.
1918 – Edith Quimby, BA mathematics and physics, medical researcher and physicist
1921 – Wallace R. Brode, BA, chemist, absorption spectra of dyes.
1924 – Walter Brattain, BA Physics, physicist, co-inventor of the transistor, Nobel Prize winner.
1934 – Bernard Berelson, BA English, behavioral scientist known for work on communication and mass media.
1960 – David R. Nygren, particle physicist, inventor of the Time projection chamber.
1965 – Webb Miller, BA, Computational Biology Pioneer. Time 100, 2009: Scientists and Thinkers
1990 – Gerard van Belle, BA Physics-Astronomy, astronomer.
1997 – Dorothy Metcalf-Lindenburger, BA Geology, NASA astronaut.
Athletics
1980 – Derrike Cope, NASCAR driver, 1990 Daytona 500 winner.
1998 – Tommy Lloyd, Assistant Basketball Coach, Gonzaga University
2000 – Ingrid Backstrom, BA Geology, professional skier.
2004 – Holly Brooks, BA Sociology, Environmental Studies, Winter Olympian in Nordic skiing.
2008 – Mara Abbott, BA Economics, professional cyclist.
Other
1955 – Colleen Willoughby, philanthropist[35]
1974 – Marlin Eller, BA Mathematics, programmer and software developer, co-author of Barbarians Led by Bill Gates
1985 – Steve McConnell, software engineering author, Code Complete
1917 – Alan W. Jones (attended), US Army major general[36][37]
Alma mater
Whitman's Alma mater is rarely heard today outside of Commencement, other than being sung regularly by the Whitman College Chorale.
ating from 1914, "The Whitman Hymn" was written and composed by President Penrose to create school unity and spirit.
When the morning light is breaking,
O're the mountain's eastern rim
And the world to work is waking
Let us sing our happy hymn.
Here's to the blue sky above us,
Here's to the wheat field's gold,
Here's to the friends that love us,
And our love will ne'er grow cold.
For friends and fields and mountains
Under heaven's kindly blue.
And the college 'mid the fountains,
dear old Whitman here's to you
With the joys of life before us,
and life's battle stern and grim
With the kindly heaven o'er us,
We will sing our happy hymn.
Mission Statement
Situated within the rich and complex landscape and history of the Walla Walla Valley, Whitman College provides a rigorous liberal arts education of the highest quality to passionate and engaged students from diverse backgrounds.
hitman students develop their intellectual and creative capacities in a supportive scholarly community that prioritizes student learning within and beyond our classrooms.
We help each student translate their deep local, regional, and global experiences into ethical and meaningful lives of purpose.
Accreditation
Whitman College is accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities.
ccreditation of an institution of higher education by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities indicates that it meets or exceeds criteria for the assessment of institutional quality evaluated through a peer review process.
n accredited college or university is one which has available the necessary resources to achieve its stated purposes through appropriate educational programs, is substantially doing so, and gives reasonable evidence that it will continue to do so in the foreseeable future.
nstitutional integrity is also addressed through accreditation.
ccreditation by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities is not partial but applies to the institution as a whole.
s such, it is not a guarantee of every course or program offered, or the competence of individual graduates.
ather, it provides reasonable assurance about the quality of opportunities available to students who attend the institution.
nquiries regarding an institution’s accredited status by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities should be directed to the administrative staff of the institution.
ndividuals may also contact:
On July 1, 2015, Kathleen Murray became the 14th president of Whitman College.
Previously she was provost and dean of the faculty at Macalester College, where she led the academic program of one of America's finest liberal arts colleges, planned a new $70 million fine arts center and played a key role in the development of Macalester’s strategic plan.
Prior to Macalester, she was provost at Birmingham-Southern College in Alabama for three years.
President Murray received her Bachelor of Music degree from Illinois Wesleyan University in 1979, then obtained her Master of Music in piano performance from Bowling Green State University in 1982 and her Doctor of Music in piano performance and pedagogy from Northwestern University in 1989.
Over the course of nineteen years, she was a member of the piano faculty, dean of the Conservatory of Music and dean of the faculty at Lawrence University in Wisconsin. 
A frequent performer, she is also a clinician and adjudicator both nationally and internationally, as well as the author of numerous articles on music and music education. 
She is recorded on the CRI label.
Dr. Murray is a passionate advocate of the liberal arts and the residential learning experience. 
She firmly believes that her undergraduate years in such a setting developed her potential as a scholar and artist, laying the foundation for her rewarding career and life.
As president of Whitman College, Kathy looks forward to close connections with the entire community. 
She loves to travel when she has the opportunity and recalls a hike up Mount Kilimanjaro as being one of her high points, literally and figuratively.